---
title: "Self-Tuning Transfer Dynamic Convolution Autoencoder for Quality Prediction of Multimode Processes With Shifts"
collection: publications
category: bigdata
permalink: /publication/2024-Chao_Y-1
date: 2024-5-21
venue: 'TII'
paperurl: 'http://wc81.github.io/files/Self-Tuning Transfer Dynamic Convolution Autoencoder for Quality Prediction of Multimode Processes With Shifts.pdf'
---

引用格式：Yang C, Liu Q, Wang C, et al. Self-Tuning Transfer Dynamic Convolution Autoencoder for Quality Prediction of Multimode Processes With Shifts[J]. IEEE Transactions on Industrial Informatics, 2024.

论文摘要
======
Process shift of multimode process involving data distribution and dynamic relation makes traditional transfer learning methods be intractable and even result in negative transfer. To tackle this issue, this article proposes a novel self-tuning transfer dynamic modeling method for quality prediction of multimode processes. First, in order to capture domain-invariant spatiotemporal (DIST) features, a transfer dynamic convolution autoencoder (TDCAE) with a feature decomposition structure is established. Meanwhile, a first-order vector autoregressive constraint is embedded to extract consistent inner dynamics for DIST features. Then, a shared regression network is established to extract the relations with quality variables. Furthermore, by making full use of private spatiotemporal information from target labeled samples in response to the process shift, the self-tuning TDCAE (STDCAE) aided by a fine-tuning strategy is established for online compensation. Finally, the efficacy of the proposed TDCAE and STDCAE is demonstrated by a comprehensive study of a three-phase flow facility process.
